two types of people are gonna see this
video some of you have never seen my
face before I've never seen this YouTube
channel or any of my YouTube channels
before and you're just interested in
hearing me talk about what it's like to
own and possibly collect for the
Nintendo 64 in the year 2019 2020 this
is recorded at the very end of 2018
whatever yeah and some of you are gonna
be very surprised that I even own such
an object in my apartment this is my
girlfriend's n64 she brought this into
my life along with many things dredged
up from her parents basement but this
was part of her childhood and what you
guys if you're a regular view of my
channel you may not know about me is
this was part of my early adulthood
as well the first job that I ever had as
a kid that I would call a real real job
the first job I had where they gave me
like the tax forms to give the
government and they had that kind of
paperwork and you got your paycheck and
it was a real paycheck the first job I
had like that you had a monthly pay stub
and everything that was as a video game
journalist so I didn't know of course I
was a journalist in general no I mean
that made the most money out of writing
video game reviews I did write other
kinds of articles and other kinds
reviews so I shouldn't just say I was
only a video game journalist it's not
worth describing the whole situation so
okay fine I was I was a teenage
journalist but really um at that time I
could get like 450 dollars for one
article about videogames it was
ridiculous and even when I did a really
really short review like like I don't
even know if you like is it even really
a full paragraph like a short little box
of text that would be like 250 bucks so
anyone who is today working in games
journalism or even like professional
reporting journalism will be freaking
out because today good luck good luck
making 450 dollars doing a feature story
for Rolling Stone magazine so me real
money out of video journalism some of
the other combs I wrote look I could
digress I did actually write some comedy
columns some current events columns I
wrote so Kansa and they paid me so those
were the days and that that was the year
when the n64 came out
and I was so esteemed the video game
journalist I'm joking but this is still
literally true
I was given an n64 in advance so this is
from memory I like my video spontaneous
so I'm not going to Google around and
confirm all the dates what I remember as
this came out first in Japan and then
they had this kind of window of time
when people who were really in the know
and video games had already seen it and
used it maybe because they flew to Japan
or flew somewhere in Asia what art
existed and they started giving out
advanced systems to journalists and I
think some of the big fancy department
stores in New York City like a few key
areas got units in advance that people
got to see in tests and play and then
there was a gap of time and then it went
on sale for the general public so during
that gap of time when in theory nobody
else had the system but it kind of
seemed like everybody had it or it cuts
seems like everyone who wanted to know
it or see it or try a cop try a system
had already try cuz I remember even the
other journalists you know when I had
when they were like oh yeah I tried that
in New York or something it's some some
occasion some some juncture they were
already they're already feeling with it
um so I was given an advance copy for
review and that was so early and it was
before came out I think at that time
technically in the United States the
only two games were Mario 64 and
waverace 64 that was okay my girlfriend
is running off to her collection and
cramming the cartridges so that was it
at the absolute dawn of this are it's
okay babe we don't need props the type
the type of refined an area that you
know viewer and videogame collector
who's gonna see this doesn't need to see
the garbage but yeah okay so this is
anyway these are obviously not the same
copies that I got for God for review
anyway say go my girlfriend's childhood
copy of waverace 64 but I think at that
time they were like like you know it was
really that early period but there were
maybe five titles in existence or
something and those like the first two
that anyone could get their hands on and
waverace 64 made a big impression on
people with this already this is a segue
to kind of the negative or critical
portion of this review why did waverace
64 make such a positive impression on
people
because the graphics everything was kind
of glittering and glowing and vague you
know the water effect was very
impressive to people but it distracted
you from the fact that the graphics were
blurry okay so for me and I wasn't the
only one who felt this way it seemed
like the n64 was a big step backward it
was a big step in the wrong direction
and today right now in 2018 that's they
have to date here we're at the end of
2018 one shop I went into they said to
me over the counter they said right now
the NC 4 is the single most collectible
most desirable piece of hardware they're
the most desirable games and again
that's partly because the games are
physically on cartridge not on CD or
whether you know it's relatively robust
hard to break reliable medium and that's
what people want they don't want CDs
that get scratched they don't want these
other kinds of things um that also seems
like a step in the wrong direction right
when this came out Sega CD was old Sega
CD was a laughingstock it had been
around forever and before the Sega CD
the real Trail Blazer was turbo graphic
CD also known as the PC engine CD and
again I moved in a set of cosmopolitan
people what was coming out in Japan we
knew about in Toronto and this is all
I can't even say pre-internet I'm sure
the internet existed for some people and
some but it wasn't wasn't really
mainstream but people were just flying
back and forth to Hong Kong or Taiwan or
Japan they all had contact with the
Japanese systems pc engine CD when that
came out Wow big impact the laserdisc
systems none of you guys will remember
that Wow big I remember the laserdisc
systems people were so excited they
showed them as a museum exhibit they had
video games playing on laser too soon
you micro often do you even remember do
you know what laserdisc is laserdisc is
a CD the size of a vinyl LP you don't
even know Wow okay so laser dust that's
exactly what it is simply a CD or cd-rom
but it is as big as a vinyl LP so the
amount of data that can be on it is
enormous
and you know we need to put it on it's
the whole thing you know starts up so
there were laserdisc based video games
and systems and again people were like
when that happened people were really
kind of June they were just excited and
stuff okay so this comes out this comes
out people want it today it's hyper
desirable today because of the the
cartridge but at that time cartridge the
step in the wrong direction okay Wow for
half a second wave race 64 looks real
impressive
everything's glowing and glittering and
you don't notice how blurry the graphics
are the blurriness a big step in the
wrong direction I had as a child the
model one Sega Genesis with the
high-definition graphics label on if you
guys don't know this the different
iterations the Sega Genesis that came
out the video quality was not the same
so I just luck no I didn't know as a
child but I was lucky I got a really
crisp signal from my Sega Genesis and
when you pretty much any game of them
then waiver sixth or even if you're just
trying to read text on screen in Wario
it's pathetic ever it's like the camera
has been covered with I don't know gauze
or Vaseline or something everything's
diaphanous everything's vague and today
this this makes it even worse because
when you when you put this I've seen
this now we have plugged this in so my
so I get this girlfriend we were
together for more than a year or
something before this happens we go to a
parent's basement we get everybody who's
at the basement she moves in with me
here in Canada we'd already live
together in China moving you know we'll
get the n64 plug it in to HDMI hi-def UG
it's terrible and it is I mean obviously
this was too old this was engineered for
an old-fashioned cathode ray tube
monitor and I said you want to say you
know I was I was just sitting down with
her so she could have some kind of you
know nostalgic return to her childhood
with this and I said to once I said to
her something I remember reading in a
review of the original black and white
Gameboy and I say black and white
advisedly because it was green and gray
I remember a review that said this
fundamentally cannot be a successful
video game system because it hurts your
eyes to play it now that that review of
course was hilariously wrong the the
original green and gray Gameboy I think
it still holds a record it's one of the
most successful video game systems of
all time play it for 30 minutes even and
you it hurts your eyes there don't play
it at all don't play the original
hardware it's ridiculous
and today in 2018 2019 2020 original
hardware for n64 running on a current
model flat-screen TV is pretty much
unplayable because it hurts your eyes to
look at it okay
so I'm sorry again I didn't want to
Google this so I wanna ruin the
spontaneity
when n64 came out sega saturn was
already out that's what i remember i had
them both i Sega Sega was in a really
weird financial position it's coming
they didn't loan me the Nintendo stuff
was all alone the company loaned it to
me and them want it back Sega everything
was a gift so they gave me you know
everything maybe a misremembering but
Sega they really rolled out the red
carpet they took me to Sega City I play
yeah yeah so Sega City was like oh yeah
yeah it was this it was a different time
you know and I got to play the video
games that came out before that you see
you know I was a journalist you know
this about me hmm you know they they had
these kiosks set up and they had like
eight different games that hadn't
released the public yet for you know
Sega Saturn at that time Sega Saturn the
video was crisp it acted multiple video
modes it could do kind of high
resolution and low or medium resolution
for different games they'd switch it up
but it from my perspective gave a crisp
clear signal at every resolution it did
they were all it was it was just
fundamentally competent as a system
nobody wants today nobody wants to
collect scratched up CDs and I think the
whole world is waiting it looks like
Sega is now going to put out a retro
console to make the the Saturn games
available but whatever we'll see but
it's not it's not that great a library
it's not that important um so the n64
right now at the end of 2018 the
the writing is on the wall the
expectation is there Nintendo first
brought out the NES classic or the NES
mini people call it both they reissued
that then they brought out the Super
Nintendo the SNES classic also known as
the SNES mini what's next
everyone is counting down to the n64
classic or the n64 mini coming up the
problem is what nobody expects them to
do is bring out a reissued classic
system with the cartridge slot so kind
of a dead end so you I mean you the
audience but also you my girlfriend who
have a collection of n64 cartridges
would you really want a reissued system
where you can't use the cartridges
because the whole strength of this today
so babe why don't you grab for me the
the Nintendo Wii controller and one of
the n64 controllers you second tier
notes because this is the other thing I
want to mention so at that time you know
the thanks babe at that time the Saturn
had an award-winning controller that's
still to this day people say some people
say was the greatest video game
controller of all time okay so I think
it was technically the Saturn model to
controller model the model one was
excellent too and people loved it and
but it's a simple straightforward
controller and this you know people
really got excited with us it's wacky
it's asymmetrical you hold it and then
use it in a symmetrical fashion you hold
it here in the middle you know as this
oh yeah and so yours is all plastic my
review copy the the shaft of joystick
was steel so I noticed that so this must
be a model - did you have one what steel
ever no yes and then so that was at
there this is all plastic but I remember
a steel shaft and steel ball anyway
whatever they probably work because
exactly the same probably the steel
rusts or something there's some problem
but you know at that time you know the
Street Fighter games we're still a big
big deal and Nintendo tried to have
their cake and eat it too here by having
these six buttons so to be possible to
do the Street later pardon me the Street
Fighter layout but Capcom ended up
really backing Sega and it was on the
was on the Saturn
all the Capcom games came out and came
out close to arcade perfect
so Nintendo mr. Vonn that the controller
is still in my opinion fundamentally a
joint light so this system in every
other respect aside from the controller
was a huge step backwards it was a step
in the wrong direction right and another
thing we won't even get into it here if
you guys don't know about this they did
this scam with the memory expansion cart
you guys the jump pack versus the
expansion pack Hill it was like oh my
god this is like going back to the bad
old days of turbo graphics 16 with like
ripoff RAM expansion packs so in a lot
of ways this step backwards and at this
same time right Sega Saturn you could at
least play audio CDs we go sway video
CDs not DVDs yet and I mean everyone
knew that was the killer app was having
multiple legit uses for it and Internet
connectivity and that stuff was coming
along couldn't do much than Internet
connectivity but it existed
you could play Phantasy Star Online or
some crap if you really wanted to throw
a lot of money at these isms but this
this was in many ways the kind of
masterpiece of the system it's wacky
it's surreal its original still to this
day this is what you can't reproduce so
a lot of the software from the n64 you
can play on some other system right and
this is what I want to say sorry I was
mentioning so waverace 64 comes out this
is a memory you had to live through it
at that time we had to be a games
journalist it's okay
did these are the launch titles right
Mario 64 comes out and then you know
when I was really news when people
really talk about this the very first
Zelda game for n64 it doesn't matter
which I free which whether it was
aquamarine as timeless you got it kick
you want to get it okay when the first
Zelda game came out for n64 okay there
we go so ocarina of time when the suck a
few gotcha
that's cool written on from childhood
she's got her name French on the carnage
so the very first Zelda game comes out
for n64 and you know what the scandal
was you could run the game better on a
PC on a personal computer you could run
it better on a Windows system than you
could on n64 so for whatever reason it
wasn't one
Mario 64 came out that really hit people
I don't know why maybe it's the style of
the game where seats where people didn't
really care but then when this came out
people including games journalists were
playing it not on n64 hardware they were
playing it on PCs they were playing on a
PC emulator of some kind they were
taking screenshots and uploading and
saying hey look
the graphics are crisper and cleaner and
it renders better and you can see
objects in the distance better and you
can read the text better that maybe that
was what it was and I remember I was
saying that but you have to read text on
screen for this right reading text on
screen for the n64 is horrible this is
like worse than Atari ok maybe this is
all right going back to Atari 2600 this
is really terrible
going back to Commodore 64 I remember
reading text on screen with Commodore 64
that was pretty awful so for whatever
reason when this came out and that just
was like the nail in the coffin for so
many people or was like hey guess what
n64 is way too expensive for what it is
the video quality sucks the hardware was
already obsolete on day one when it came
out and at that time their competition
wasn't just Sega Saturn was also pcs was
also personal computers personal
computers were still bringing out big
box games making a lot of money selling
games on CDs and other format really at
that time was games on CDs cd-rom format
for PC so the head competition from
there and that oh you could feel it you
could just feel the excitement and
optimism drain out of it right but so
still today you have the option doing
this of course you could play this game
Zelda or Mario 64 on some other platform
right and I know Mario 64 specifically
this was reissued on gameboy advance or
qds or 3d s or all of them yeah it was
reissued on one of the okay yeah 3ds
something it's been reissued oh but if
you play any of the reissues what you
lose is exactly the wonky imperfect
brilliance of the controller and if
people tell me the GameCube controller
is even better it's fundamentally
similar to this and the GameCube
controller are similar but I mean that's
you know love it or hate it this and the
GameCube controller that's really the
of Nintendo controllers guess what guess
what comes next this this monstrosity
this is the pathetic eighty climax to
whatever 25 years of video game
development talk about a step in the
wrong direction I'm sorry so this this
had to complete compete with the Sega
Saturn
you know controller that as I mentioned
won awards and people absolutely and
they still love to this day right what
what are they thinking right so this is
my point this this controller you'll
never really get the same experience
playing an n64 game on a computer and
emulation or on a Nintendo 3ds or a
portable platform or anything else that
it might be adapted to play on a feature
some other some other hardware okay and
and this is the exact opposite any game
you have on the Wii U would be better
playing with the keyboard you'd be
better with any monster format you could
it's so awful it's such a terrible step
in the wrong direction it's console and
all the finicky crap with getting the
wireless to work and getting it synced
up and all this graph it's terrible and
I know this because I have a child I
have a five-year-old daughter I put up
with all this video game crap in my life
because yeah yeah yeah yeah I know so my
girlfriend is poignant you can't but how
many games how many games he's even work
with then it's still not better in my
opinion I don't think this is good this
is the Wii pro or whatever good luck you
know enough and have some games work
with it in some games don't and you
still have to deal with all the finicky
wireless crap were to have you so yeah
um that's it I mean guys you know look
why do people play video games I think
for me as an adult either I'm playing
video games with my daughter or like I
might be interested in a video game for
the length of time it takes you to do a
bowel movement my level of patience so
these games people consider great
classics like Oh 40 hours of gameplay
yeah really really homeboy you got 40
hours I got a lot of things I can do
with 40 hours of my life you know does
that um it blows my mind a little bit
that people put 40 hours into a game as
an adult etc etc but
it's for this reason both of these
reasons that people are really more
interested than ever in classic systems
in retro game because it fulfills the
two things one a lot of software that's
great for kids and I'm a parent I look I
do not see a lot of software that's
great for kids on current generation
systems well and it's so much money do
you want to spend hundreds and hundreds
of dollars on a Nintendo switch or a ps4
or an Xbox one for just a couple of
games that are kind of child safe and
child friendly and you know if those
systems are aimed at core gamers
Nintendo switched you could do a
separate video on but it's finicky it's
fragile your kid can't spill orange
juice on it the actual controller
sliding England switch is really a
non-starter my daughter already broke a
2ds
a Nintendo studious so they're not
invincible and this is I could probably
throw this on the floor now and it's not
going to [ __ ] this is I mean even sore
even the ports for the for the
controller are really rugged and so on
this is kid-friendly hardware and it's
kid-friendly
software there's a lot pretty much every
game it's gonna be good for kids and
then on the other hand if you're
actually an adult so what do we actually
have in the slot here we have Road Rash
64 that's a solid 5 minutes of gameplay
right that's a solid you know that's
about the time it takes to have a bowel
movement this is not gonna compete with
reading Thomas Hobbes Leviathan this is
not going to compete with reading books
or substance or what have you but this
is something you know so with retro
gaming you know I think you have both
and here's the funny thing the market
for that potentially and actually is
larger than the market for core gamers
parents casual gamers etc it's a huge
number of people and the real
competition in 2018-2019 is with playing
video games on your phone or tablet
which I personally I'm not interested I
don't even I don't really think I'm in
horizon this but the question is now can
someone put together you know a classic
reissue console like we had for the Sega
Genesis recently deeply flawed console
can do leave a like leave a comment
below the video I can do another video
we can do a comparative head-to-head
review the classic Genesis reissue and
the classics
Nintendo Wii issue we got it all I'll
give a link to my main channel too if
you if some of you guys are watching
this as video game players who wonder
who is this crazy guy with a 5 year old
daughter making these videos but yeah as
a library of games and just as an
interface as a controller and as a
refreshing contrast to the garbage that
Nintendo became soon thereafter in my
biased opinion and specifically for
titles like ocarina of time there's
there's a lot of demand and everyone's
saying yeah people pay large amounts of
money people are trying to collect
people are trying to trying to buy up
the legacy of the n64 so you tell me
2019 2020 is this the year of the n64
classic of the n64 mini and if so would
you buy it for yourself would you buy it
for your son daughter grandson or
granddaughter if you want a system
that's certainly pornography free child
you know child friendly intuitive easy
to use and nearly indestructible I think
you can throw this on the ground a lot
harder than you can throw a 3ds or throw
a Nintendo switch the whole your kid
drops the antenna switch to the ground
it's kind of a no-brainer but ultimately
don't play video games that hurt your
eyes for me right now
hooking up to a current flat screen not
even for five minutes